docs: New common uses page for Caddyfile (#42)
caddyserver/website: src/docs/markdown/caddyfile/common-uses.md

---
title: Common Caddyfile Uses
---

# Common Caddyfile Uses

This page presents some complete, minimal Caddyfile configurations for common use cases, which you might find helpful when building your own configs.

> These are not drop-in solutions; you will have to customize your domain name, ports/sockets, directory paths, etc. They are intended to illustrate only the basic requirements for the most common use cases.

Reviewer: These don't really involve "requirements" IMO, I think this might be better?

```suggestion
These are not drop-in solutions; you will have to customize your domain name, ports/sockets, directory paths, etc. They are intended to illustrate some of the most common configuration patterns.
```

#### Menu

- [Static file server](#static-file-server)
- [Reverse proxy](#reverse-proxy)
- [PHP](#php)
- [Redirect `www.` subdomain](#redirect-www-subdomain)
- [Trailing slashes](#trailing-slashes)

## Static file server

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com

> root * /var/www  # optional; default root is current directory

Reviewer 2: I'd leave off the comment here.  Most people run webservers as daemons, not from the command line, so for the "common uses" theme this comment is noise.

file_server
```

## Reverse proxy

All requests:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com

reverse_proxy localhost:5000
```

Just requests having a path starting with `/api/`; static files for everything else:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com

reverse_proxy /api/* localhost:5000
root * /var/www  # optional; default root is current directory
file_server
```

## PHP

> With FastCGI running, something like this works for most modern PHP apps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a PHP FastCGI service running, something like this works for most modern PHP apps:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com

> php_fastcgi unix//run/php/php-fpm.sock

Reviewer: Still need to serve files in the 95% case.

```suggestion
php_fastcgi unix//run/php/php-fpm.sock

root * /var/www  # optional; default root is current directory 
file_server
```

Reviewer: derp the next one says that (but tbh they almost always will)

Reviewer: Actually yeah - we definitely should always note to add file_server here. I can't think of really any situations where it would _only_ be PHP. I guess if it's a JSON API or something... but...

Author: I think it's important for the user to know that they are separate things, we definitely don't want them serving static files if they shouldn't be...

Reviewer: Okay then we can add a comment `# the below will serve static files` or something. I'd rather avoid people jumping to the forums saying "I'm getting empty 200s", cause we already get plenty of those!

Reviewer 2: I agree, the first example should be the most common pattern (include the `file_server` directive).  In fact I would just go with one example, and have text after it that points out that the `file_server` directive isn't necessary if the user knows they don't need to serve static files.

```

If your PHP site relies on static files too, you may need to enable a static file server (but this depends on your PHP app):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com

php_fastcgi /blog/* localhost:9000
root * /var/www  # optional; default root is current directory
file_server
```

## Redirect `www.` subdomain

To **add** the `www.` subdomain with an HTTP redirect:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com {
	redir https://www.example.com{uri}
}

www.example.com {

> 	...

Reviewer 2: A `root` directive here might be better here, just to make sure no one gets mixed up thinking that `...` is some magic directive.  Same with a few lines later.

Author: A root directive by itself is not particularly useful though.

I think -- hope (for the sake of humanity) -- that most people in most cultures know that `...` indicates a continuation or filler of some sort.

Maybe the block should just be left empty, if it's really going to be a problem?

Reviewer: I don't feel that strongly either way, but I think `...` is fine. They'll get a syntax error immediately if they try that anyways.

Reviewer 2: How about a `root` and `file_server`, just something minimal that is real?

Author: I think that starts distracting from what the example is intending to showcase: the redirect and _only_ the redirect.

I'll leave the block empty then.

}
```

To **remove** it:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

www.example.com {
	redir https://example.com{uri}
}

example.com {
	...
}
```

## Trailing slashes

You will not usually need to configure this yourself; the [`file_server` directive](/docs/caddyfile/directives/file_server) will automatically add or remove trailing slashes from requests by way of HTTP redirects, depending on whether the requested resource is a directory or file, respectively.

HTTP redirects are external, but you can internally [`rewrite`](/docs/caddyfile/directives/rewrite) add the slash if you want both URIs to be used for the same resource.

To add or remove a trailing slash:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

example.com

rewrite /add     /add/

> rewrite /remove/ /remove

Reviewer: Would it make sense at all to use `uri` here instead?

```suggestion
uri /remove/ strip_suffix /
```

But I understand if the goal was to show the inverse with rewrite only.

The `rewrite` example here is a bit non-optimal I'd say because they involve duplication. But it's minor.

Author: Good point, maybe -- the semantics of `rewrite` are different from `uri`.

> rewrite /remove/ /remove

Reviewer 2: This is confusing, users would want one or the other, not both in the same config.  This will make more sense as two separate config blocks.

```

> To perform the equivalent change externally (with a redirect), simply replaces `rewrite` with [`redir`](/docs/caddyfile/directives/redir):

Reviewer 2: Is there a concise way we can describe `rewrite` and `redir` here so that most users don't need to follow the links just for a basic understanding of the difference?

Reviewer: How about: "`redir` asks the browser to change the URL, `rewrite` asks Caddy to change the path internally". Make sense?

Reviewer 2: YES, thank you for putting that into words better than I could have.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```caddy
```

## Static file server

```caddy
example.com

root * /var/www
file_server
```

As usual, the first line is the site address. The [`root` directive](/docs/caddyfile/directives/root) specifies the path to the root of the site (the `*` means to match all requests, so as to disambiguate from a [path matcher](/docs/caddyfile/matchers#path-matchers))&mdash;change the path to your site if it isn't the current working directory. Finally, we enable the [static file server](/docs/caddyfile/directives/file_server).

## Reverse proxy

Proxy all requests:

```caddy
example.com

reverse_proxy localhost:5000
```

Only proxy requests having a path starting with `/api/` and serve static files for everything else:

```caddy
example.com

root * /var/www
reverse_proxy /api/* localhost:5000
file_server
```

## PHP

With a PHP FastCGI service running, something like this works for most modern PHP apps:

```caddy
example.com

root * /var/www
php_fastcgi /blog/* localhost:9000
file_server
```

Customize the site root and path matcher accordingly; this example assumes PHP is only in the `/blog/` subdirectory&mdash;all other requests will be served as static files.

> The [`php_fastcgi` directive](/docs/caddyfile/directives/php_fastcgi) is actually just a shortcut for [several pieces of configuration](/docs/caddyfile/directives/php_fastcgi#expanded-form).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`php_fastcgi` directive](/docs/caddyfile/directives/php_fastcgi) is actually a shortcut for [several pieces of configuration](/docs/caddyfile/directives/php_fastcgi#expanded-form).
```

I wouldn't say it's _just_ a shortcut 😛

## Redirect `www.` subdomain

To **add** the `www.` subdomain with an HTTP redirect:

```caddy
example.com {

> 	redir https://www.example.com{uri}

Reviewer: Do we want to consider making it like this?

```suggestion
	redir https://www.{host}{uri}
```

Author: I'd rather keep the examples as simple as possible. Also, this would omit the port (if non-standard).

}

www.example.com {
}
```

To **remove** it:

```caddy
www.example.com {

> 	redir https://example.com{uri}

Reviewer: Probably too "complex" to show in this page, but maybe:

```suggestion
	redir https://{labels.1}.{labels.0}{uri}
```

Author: Agreed

> rewrite /remove/ /remove

Reviewer: I think you forgot the add here

```suggestion
rewrite /add     /add/
rewrite /remove/ /remove
```

Author: Is that not https://github.com/caddyserver/website/pull/42/files#diff-9f61e9f747cde1dd3e210174ef80eda0R109 ?

Reviewer: The heck, it didn't show up for me 🤷‍♂️
